[why-astro] (#5428)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/concepts/why-astro.mdx

---
title: Why Astro?
description: "Astro is an all-in-one web framework for building fast, content-driven websites. Learn more."
i18nReady: true
---

**Astro** is the web framework for building **content-driven websites** like porfolios, blogs, docs, marketing sites, landing pages, and ecommerce. 

> Astro is best known for pioneering a JavaScript frontend architecture using [islands](/en/concepts/islands), optimized for performance, flexibility, and simplicity.

Author: ```suggestion
Astro is best known for pioneering a JavaScript frontend architecture using [islands](/en/concepts/islands/), optimized for performance, flexibility, and simplicity.
```

## Features

> Astro includes everything you need built-in to get started quickly, and hundreds of integrations to extend your site. 

Reviewer: `extend your site`  feels a bit vague to me. From my perspective, Integrations usually
- improve the Dev Experience by solving problems with enough abstraction
- improve website performance (User experience)

that being said, my suggestion would be `enhance`, `boost`, `improve`, `enrich`, `elevate`
> note: more suggestions are possible

Some highlights include:

- **[Islands:](/en/concepts/islands/)** A component-based web architecture optimized for content-driven websites.
- **[UI-agnostic](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/):** Supports React, Preact, Svelte, Vue, Solid, Lit, HTMX, web components, and more.
- **[Server-first:](/en/core-concepts/rendering-modes/)** Moves expensive rendering off of your visitors' devices.
- **[Zero JS, by default:](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/)** Less client-side JavaScript to slow your site down.

> - **[Content-obsessed:](/en/guides/content-collections/)** Content Collections to validate your Markdown with type-safe frontmatter.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps 'focused' or 'immersed' would be more suitable than 'obsessed', as they convey a similar idea but with a more positive tone.

```suggestion
- **[Content-immersed:](/en/guides/content-collections/)** Content Collections to validate your Markdown with type-safe frontmatter.
```

Author: Changed this to just "Content Collections", like Islands!

> - **[Content-obsessed:](/en/guides/content-collections/)** Content Collections to validate your Markdown with type-safe frontmatter.

Author: ```suggestion
- **[Content collections:](/en/guides/content-collections/)** Organize, query and validate your Markdown and data files.
```

### Content-driven

**Astro was designed for building content-rich websites.** This includes marketing sites, publishing sites, documentation sites, blogs, portfolios, landing pages, community sites, and ecommerce sites. If you have content to show, it needs to reach your reader quickly.

By contrast, most modern web frameworks were designed for building *web applications*. These frameworks excel at building more complex, application-like experiences in the browser: logged-in admin dashboards, inboxes, social networks, todo lists, and even native-like applications like [Figma](https://figma.com/) and [Ping](https://ping.gg/). However, they often struggle to provide great performance when you need it most.

Astro's focus on content from its beginnings as a static site builder have allowed Astro to **sensibly scale up to performant, powerful, dynamic web applications** that still respect your content and your audience. Astro's unique focus on content lets Astro make tradeoffs and deliver unmatched performance features that wouldn't make sense for more application-focused web frameworks to implement.

### Server-first

> **Astro leverages [server-rendering](/en/core-conceptes/rendering-modes/) over client-side rendering in the browser as much as possible.** This is the same approach that traditional server-side frameworks -- PHP, WordPress, Laravel, Ruby on Rails, etc. -- have been using for decades. But you don't need to learn a second server-side language to unlock it. With Astro, everything is still just HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (or TypeScript, if you prefer).

Author: ```suggestion
**Astro leverages [server-rendering](/en/core-concepts/rendering-modes/) over client-side rendering in the browser as much as possible.** This is the same approach that traditional server-side frameworks -- PHP, WordPress, Laravel, Ruby on Rails, etc. -- have been using for decades. But you don't need to learn a second server-side language to unlock it. With Astro, everything is still just HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (or TypeScript, if you prefer).
```

> This approach stands in contrast to other modern JavaScript web frameworks like Next.js, SvelteKit, Nuxt, Remix, and others. These frameworks require client-side rendering of your entire website and include server-side rendering mainly to address performance concerns. This approach has been dubbed the **Single-Page App (SPA)**, in contrast with Astro's **Multi-Page App (MPA)** approach.

Author: ```suggestion
This approach stands in contrast to other modern JavaScript web frameworks like Next.js, SvelteKit, Nuxt, Remix, and others. These frameworks were built for client-side rendering of your entire website and include server-side rendering mainly to address performance concerns. This approach has been dubbed the **Single-Page App (SPA)**, in contrast with Astro's **Multi-Page App (MPA)** approach.
```

> This approach stands in contrast to other modern JavaScript web frameworks like Next.js, SvelteKit, Nuxt, Remix, and others. These frameworks require client-side rendering of your entire website and include server-side rendering mainly to address performance concerns. This approach has been dubbed the **Single-Page App (SPA)**, in contrast with Astro's **Multi-Page App (MPA)** approach.

Reviewer 2: Astro's emphasis on server-side rendering does contrast with these frameworks, but it might no be accurate to say that they require client-side rendering for the entire website. Frameworks like Next.js, SvelteKit, and Nuxt offer client-side rendering capabilities, they are not limited to SPA approaches. Each framework provides a range of rendering options, including server-side rendering, static site generation, and hybrid approaches. 

```suggestion
This approach differentiates itself from other modern JavaScript web frameworks such as Next.js, SvelteKit, Nuxt, Remix and others. While these frameworks offer client-side rendering capabilities, they are not limited to SPA (Single-Page Application) approaches. For example, Next.js, SvelteKit, and Nuxt support a hybrid rendering model that combines server-side rendering, static site generation, and client-side rendering, depending on the specific needs of each page. This flexibility allows for performance optimization and enhanced SEO. In contrast, Astro primarily focuses on a server-side rendering approach, akin to a Multi-Page Application (MPA) model, which can be more suitable for content-heavy sites where first-load performance is crucial.
```

Author: I agree with you things have changed since we originally wrote this statement, but I don't think we need to get into more of a definition of other services here to be both accurate and get our point across.

The intention (which maybe could be better worded!) is that these *are* primarily client-side frameworks who *had to introduce* any server-rendering that they might now have or do for performance concerns. (i.e. it's not about describing what they support now, it's about the different paths the projects have taken)

The intent isn't necessarily to explain them in detail, but to highlight the difference between them being *client-first*, then adding on some server stuff because they found they needed it, vs Astro being *server-first* from the beginning. 

So I'd be happy to reconsider wording that doesn't go into everyone's options, but again, highlights "where each project ultimately came from" in their approaches, because that *does* have an effect on legacy code, design decisions and even what new people using defaults are nudged into etc., even if everyone now offers some kind of hybrid rendering. I'd like for us to get *that* idea across.

---
title: Why Astro?
description: "Astro is an all-in-one web framework for building fast, content-driven websites. Learn more."
i18nReady: true
---

**Astro** is a web framework for building **content-driven websites** that load fast with great SEO.

:::tip

> Explore the [collection of Astro themes](https://astro.build/themes/) for blogs, portfolios, docs, landing pages, SaaS, marketing, ecommerce sites, and more!

Reviewer 3: nit: `ecommerce` -> `e-commerce`
```suggestion
Explore the [collection of Astro themes](https://astro.build/themes/) for blogs, portfolios, docs, landing pages, SaaS, marketing, e-commerce sites, and more!
```

> ::: 

Reviewer: The position of this tip could be better before `Developer-focused` heading from my perspective

Author: Ah, so my thinking was, it comes after where we say "content-driven sites" in case people are like, "what does that mean??" The tip here makes it super clear what kind of websites we're talking about.

Given that context, how do you feel about the tip here?

Reviewer: True, I still google `content-driven` every now and then, I believe its good position now.
I could also see the tip being well placed after the `Content Driven` Paragraph and right before `Server-first` heading

Author: Thanks, then I think the beginning for immediate context makes sense, and then we're not splitting up the design principles. :+1:

Astro is best known for pioneering and popularizing [**islands**](/en/concepts/islands/): a JavaScript frontend architecture optimized for performance, flexibility, and simplicity.

## Features

> Astro includes everything you need built-in to get started quickly, and hundreds of add-on integrations to extend your site. 

Reviewer: Perfect 💯 from me 😄,  would love to know how other maintainers feel about this

> Astro includes everything you need built-in to get started quickly, and hundreds of add-on integrations to extend your site. 

Author: That's all I need to hear... the others are welcome to comment when they read this in place!  ;)

Some highlights include:

> - **[Islands:](/en/concepts/islands/)** A component-based web architecture optimized for content-driven websites.
> - **[UI-agnostic](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/):** Supports React, Preact, Svelte, Vue, Solid, Lit, HTMX, web components, and more.
> - **[Server-first:](/en/core-concepts/rendering-modes/)** Moves expensive rendering off of your visitors' devices.
> - **[Zero JS, by default:](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/)** Less client-side JavaScript to slow your site down.
> - **[Content collections:](/en/guides/content-collections/)** Organize, validate and provide TypeScript type-safety for your Markdown content.
> - **[Customizable:](/en/guides/integrations-guide/)** Tailwind, MDX, and hundreds of integrations to choose from.

Reviewer 3: The formatting is a bit inconsistent here, sometimes the `:` is part of the link, sometimes not. I would change so that the `:` isn't part of the link, but is still bold.

```suggestion
- **[Islands](/en/concepts/islands/):** A component-based web architecture optimized for content-driven websites.
- **[UI-agnostic](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/):** Supports React, Preact, Svelte, Vue, Solid, Lit, HTMX, web components, and more.
- **[Server-first](/en/core-concepts/rendering-modes/):** Moves expensive rendering off of your visitors' devices.
- **[Zero JS, by default](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/):** Less client-side JavaScript to slow your site down.
- **[Content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/):** Organize, validate, and provide TypeScript type-safety for your Markdown content.
- **[Customizable](/en/guides/integrations-guide/):** Tailwind, MDX, and hundreds of integrations to choose from.
```

Author: Yes, exactly what I would have chosen. :one: :brain:

## Design Principles

Here are five core design principles to help explain why we built Astro, the problems that it exists to solve, and why Astro may be the best choice for your project or team.

Astro is...

> 1. [Content-driven](#content-driven): Astro was designed to showcase your content.
> 2. [Server-first](#server-first): Websites run faster when they render HTML on the server.
> 3. [Fast by default](#fast-by-default): It should be impossible to build a slow website in Astro.
> 4. [Easy to use](#easy-to-use): You don't need to be an expert to build something with Astro.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **[Content-driven](#content-driven):** Astro was designed to showcase your content.
2. **[Server-first](#server-first):** Websites run faster when they render HTML on the server.
3. **[Fast by default](#fast-by-default):** It should be impossible to build a slow website in Astro.
4. **[Easy to use](#easy-to-use):** You don't need to be an expert to build something with Astro.
```

> 5. [Developer-focused](#developer-focused): You should have the resources you need to be successful.

Reviewer 3: Since each bulleted list item's "title" is bold just above, maybe we should use the same formatting here for consistency?

### Content-driven

> **Astro was designed for building content-rich websites.** This includes marketing sites, publishing sites, documentation sites, blogs, portfolios, landing pages, community sites, and ecommerce sites. If you have content to show, it needs to reach your reader quickly.

Reviewer 3: Nit: `ecommerce` -> `e-commerce`
```suggestion
**Astro was designed for building content-rich websites.** This includes marketing sites, publishing sites, documentation sites, blogs, portfolios, landing pages, community sites, and e-commerce sites. If you have content to show, it needs to reach your reader quickly.
```

> By contrast, most modern web frameworks were designed for building *web applications*. These frameworks excel at building more complex, application-like experiences in the browser: logged-in admin dashboards, inboxes, social networks, todo lists, and even native-like applications like [Figma](https://figma.com/) and [Ping](https://ping.gg/). However, they often struggle to provide great performance when you need it most.

Reviewer: The final sentence - `However, they often  struggle to provide ... most` 
Regular Astro Docs Reader POV: Its good 👍 
Twitter Hot Take POV: I kinda feel bad reading it and I would not like it in my feed as well

I have never seen any Framework Docs mentioning how a certain third party product can `struggle during times of need`

> Note: This is a subjective opinion and I don't think my suggestion here would make any difference for better but I want to just talk about it given Fred and Theo(ping.gg creator) have some good content over Youtube & Twitter afaik

Author: OK, let's try to avoid hot takes here! I **do** want a however, of some kind. Something that implies: if a thing was built for that stuff, then why would you expect it to excel at the other stuff? Does a change like... "However with that complexity, they CAN struggle to provide great performance when delivering your content." feel any different to you?

Reviewer: I will follow up on this in next 8-10 hours (its midnight at my place)
From my PoV the PR is a big 👍

Reviewer: I don't know how to mark a comment resolved in GitHub so I will just approve the PR for the better

> 5. [Developer-focused](#developer-focused): You should have the resources you need to be successful.

Author: ```suggestion
5. **[Developer-focused](#developer-focused):** You should have the resources you need to be successful.
```

> By contrast, most modern web frameworks were designed for building *web applications*. These frameworks excel at building more complex, application-like experiences in the browser: logged-in admin dashboards, inboxes, social networks, todo lists, and even native-like applications like [Figma](https://figma.com/) and [Ping](https://ping.gg/). However, they often struggle to provide great performance when you need it most.

Author: ```suggestion
By contrast, most modern web frameworks were designed for building *web applications*. These frameworks excel at building more complex, application-like experiences in the browser: logged-in admin dashboards, inboxes, social networks, todo lists, and even native-like applications like [Figma](https://figma.com/) and [Ping](https://ping.gg/). However with that complexity, they can struggle to provide great performance when delivering your content.
```

One of our favorite sayings is: **opt in to complexity.** We designed Astro to remove as much "required complexity" as possible from the developer experience, especially as you onboard for the first time. You can build a "Hello World" example website in Astro with just HTML and CSS. Then, when you need to build something more powerful, you can incrementally reach for new features and APIs as you go.

### Developer-focused

We strongly believe that Astro is only a successful project if people love using it. Astro has everything you need to support you as you build with Astro.

Astro invests in developer tools like a great CLI experience from the moment you open your terminal, an official VS Code extension for syntax highlighting, TypeScript and Intellisense, and documentation actively maintained by hundreds of community contributors and available in 14 languages.

> Our welcoming, respectful, inclusive community on Discord is ready to provide support, motivation and encouragement. Open a `#support` thread to get help with your project. Visit our dedicated `#showcase` channel for sharing your Astro sites, blog posts, videos and even work-in-progress for safe feedback and constructive criticism. Participate in regular live events such as our weekly community call, "Talking and Doc'ing," and API/bug bashes.

Reviewer 3: comma nits
```suggestion
Our welcoming, respectful, inclusive community on Discord is ready to provide support, motivation, and encouragement. Open a `#support` thread to get help with your project. Visit our dedicated `#showcase` channel for sharing your Astro sites, blog posts, videos, and even work-in-progress for safe feedback and constructive criticism. Participate in regular live events such as our weekly community call, "Talking and Doc'ing," and API/bug bashes.
```
